# Fuzzy-Clustering
A MATLAB program that allows one to use fuzzy clustering to infer clusters from raw datasets. Based on the work by Anton Semechko- (https://ch.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/41967-fast-fuzzy-c-means-image-segmentation?s_tid=srchtitle_fuzzy%20clustering%20images_3)
The main functions to be employed are either optifuzzy or simplefuzzy where optifuzzy is for clustering of images with a grainy background and simplefuzzy is for more general purpose image clustering. 
fuzzy clustering 5 and 10 are subroutine functions employed in the aforementioned main functions. Fuzzy clustering 5 is mainly used for extracting the boundary of the region within the image with the masked image being used as input within simple or optifuzzy. 
DemoFCM is utilized to represent the membership maps of the image along with a color coded label map of the original image.
LUT2label is utilized to generate a color coded label map but is just added as a axillary file which is not used anywhere in the main function.
FastFCMeans and FM2Map are functions of Anton Semechko that are utilized as the core of the image segmentation fuzzy clustering application. They are subroutines employed within optifuzzy and simplefuzzy programs.
The output generated by the main functions is an image label map along with an area list. The image label map is an array of pixels with each pixel having an associated label of a cluster. THe area list gives a list of areas of all the clusters within the original image.


